README.md, before:

# TerminalIO

A web-based HTTP client service built with Go and the Beego framework that allows users to send HTTP requests with customizable parameters, view responses, and maintain a history of requests.

## Features

- **HTTP Request Form**: Send requests with full parameter control:
  - URL input
  - Method selection (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, PATCH, HEAD, OPTIONS)
  - Custom headers
  - Cookies
  - GET parameters
  - Request body
  - Timeout settings
  - Redirect and SSL options

- **Request History**: Store and manage previous requests:
  - View history of all sent requests
  - Filter by URL or method
  - Resend previous requests
  - Delete request records

- **Real-time Terminal**: Execute system commands through a web interface:
  - WebSocket-based terminal with automatic protocol detection (ws/wss)
  - Command history storage
  - Interactive command execution
  - Support for shell builtins (cd, export, etc.)

- **Database Storage**: All requests and terminal commands are stored in an SQLite database for persistence.

## 🧰 Terminal Essential Linux Tools Overview

| Tool            | Description                                      | Common Commands                                  |
|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `iputils-ping`  | Sends ICMP echo requests to test host reachability. | `ping google.com`<br>`ping -c 4 8.8.8.8`         |
| `curl`          | Transfers data to/from servers using HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, etc. | `curl -I https://example.com`<br>`curl https://api.github.com`<br>`curl -X POST -d '{"key":"value"}' https://httpbin.org/post` |
| `wget`          | Downloads files from the web via HTTP, HTTPS, or FTP. | `wget https://example.com/file.zip`<br>`wget --spider https://example.com`<br>`wget -O output.txt https://example.com` |

## Technologies Used

- **Backend**: Go with Beego framework
- **Frontend**: HTML/CSS with responsive design
- **Database**: SQLite
- **Real-time Communication**: WebSocket

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.16 or higher
- Git

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Nick1994209/terminalio.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```bash
   cd terminalio
   ```

3. Run the application:
   ```bash
   go run main.go
   ```

4. Access the application in your browser at `http://localhost:8080`

### Docker

The application can also be run using Docker. Two build targets are available:

1. **Root user** (default):
   ```bash
   docker build --target root-user -t terminalio .
   docker run -p 8080:8080 terminalio
   ```

2. **Non-root user** (enhanced security):
   ```bash
   docker build --target non-root-user -t terminalio:nonroot .
   docker run -p 8080:8080 terminalio:nonroot
   ```

## Usage

1. **Main Page**: Navigate between the Requests and Terminal interfaces
2. **Requests**: Fill out the form with your desired HTTP parameters and send requests
3. **History**: View and manage your request history
4. **Terminal**: Execute system commands in real-time

## API Endpoints

- `/` - Main page
- `/requests` - HTTP request form
- `/requests/send` - Send HTTP request (POST)
- `/requests/history` - View request history
- `/requests/resend/:id` - Resend a previous request (POST)
- `/requests/delete/:id` - Delete a request from history (POST)
- `/terminal` - Terminal interface
- `/ws/terminal` - WebSocket connection for terminal (automatically uses ws:// or wss:// based on page protocol)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Restructure project architecture: Move from controllers/models to cmd/internal structure, add architecture documentation, update main components. Made by AI

README.md, after:

# TerminalIO

A web-based HTTP client service built with Go and the Beego framework that allows users to send HTTP requests with customizable parameters, view responses, and maintain a history of requests.

## 🏗️ Architecture

The project has been refactored in accordance with the principles of clean architecture. A detailed description of the architecture can be found in the file [README_ARCHITECTURE.md](README_ARCHITECTURE.md).

## Features

- **HTTP Request Form**: Send requests with full parameter control:
  - URL input
  - Method selection (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, PATCH, HEAD, OPTIONS)
  - Custom headers
  - Cookies
  - GET parameters
  - Request body
  - Timeout settings
  - Redirect and SSL options

- **Request History**: Store and manage previous requests:
  - View history of all sent requests
  - Filter by URL or method
  - Resend previous requests
  - Delete request records

- **Real-time Terminal**: Execute system commands through a web interface:
  - WebSocket-based terminal with automatic protocol detection (ws/wss)
  - Command history storage
  - Interactive command execution
  - Support for shell builtins (cd, export, etc.)

- **Database Storage**: All requests and terminal commands are stored in an SQLite database for persistence.

## 🧰 Terminal Essential Linux Tools Overview

| Tool            | Description                                      | Common Commands                                  |
|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `iputils-ping`  | Sends ICMP echo requests to test host reachability. | `ping google.com`<br>`ping -c 4 8.8.8.8`         |
| `curl`          | Transfers data to/from servers using HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, etc. | `curl -I https://example.com`<br>`curl https://api.github.com`<br>`curl -X POST -d '{"key":"value"}' https://httpbin.org/post` |
| `wget`          | Downloads files from the web via HTTP, HTTPS, or FTP. | `wget https://example.com/file.zip`<br>`wget --spider https://example.com`<br>`wget -O output.txt https://example.com` |

## Technologies Used

- **Backend**: Go with Beego framework
- **Frontend**: HTML/CSS with responsive design
- **Database**: SQLite
- **Real-time Communication**: WebSocket

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.16 or higher
- Git

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Nick1994209/terminalio.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```bash
   cd terminalio
   ```

3. Run the application:
   ```bash
   go run cmd/main.go
   ```

4. Access the application in your browser at `http://localhost:8080`

### Docker

The application can also be run using Docker. Two build targets are available:

1. **Root user** (default):
   ```bash
   docker build --target root-user -t terminalio .
   docker run -p 8080:8080 terminalio
   ```

2. **Non-root user** (enhanced security):
   ```bash
   docker build --target non-root-user -t terminalio:nonroot .
   docker run -p 8080:8080 terminalio:nonroot
   ```

## Usage

1. **Main Page**: Navigate between the Requests and Terminal interfaces
2. **Requests**: Fill out the form with your desired HTTP parameters and send requests
3. **History**: View and manage your request history
4. **Terminal**: Execute system commands in real-time

## API Endpoints

- `/` - Main page
- `/requests` - HTTP request form
- `/requests/send` - Send HTTP request (POST)
- `/requests/history` - View request history
- `/requests/resend/:id` - Resend a previous request (POST)
- `/requests/delete/:id` - Delete a request from history (POST)
- `/terminal` - Terminal interface
- `/ws/terminal` - WebSocket connection for terminal (automatically uses ws:// or wss:// based on page protocol)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
